♪
Strand:
The gang's all here.
Strand,
what are you waiting for?
Turn it off.Even if I turn it off,
even if I help you save
everyone,
the damage is already done.
[Glass shattering]
If you're listening to this,
you're not alone.
The place you've been
looking for, PADRE,
it's here, the Tower.
We can help you.
Alicia!
[Distorted shouting]
♪
[Snarls]
[Snarling]
♪
[Alicia breathing shallowly]
[Snarls]
♪
[Bird chirping]
Hi.
♪
[Echoing] She's waking up!
It's okay, Alicia.
June! June, over here!
Don't stand up.
You're low on fluids
and febrile.
Get saline
and the epinephrine.
[Sleepily] Wait.
What are we doing?
Why are we prepping
the rafts?
-You don't remember?
-What?
The Tower.
It's burning.
The walkers from the crater --
when they breach those walls,
when they burn, everything's
gonna be released into the air.
Where are we going?
We don't know.
Morgan --
where'd he land?
He hasn't.
At least not yet.
It could be just
as dangerous out there.
No, no, no, no, no.
You cannot stand up.I'm fine.
If we don't bring the fever
under control, it will kill you.
It's been like this
for months.
So where the hell
is Strand?
He didn't want
to come with us.
Do we know where he is?
As far as we know,
he's still in there.
[Indistinct conversations]
The med kit is packed.
I found some adrenaline
if she needs it.
Alicia: Okay. Let's get
everyone in the rafts.
June:
Y-You need to rest.
♪
She heard the message.
Hey!
Over here!
♪
Wait!
Girl: Over here!
♪
Come back!
You don't have to run!
Girl: I'm not running!
I have to find my friend!
We can help you.
I want to help you.
Then help me find him
in there.
He knows
how to get to Padre.
♪
Padre?
Come on!
No, don't. You don't
have to run -- Wait!
♪
[Walker growling]
[Wind whistling]
[Growling stops][Grunts]
[Static crackles]
Luciana:
Alicia, where are you?
Tell us where you are.
[Metal creaking]
Alicia? Over.
Alicia, do you read me?
[Static crackles]
[Breathing heavily]
I'm here.
I found the girl
I told you about.
She might know
where Padre is.
You're going to need
a place to go.
Padre? Why did you
leave on your own?
Because I can't
put you in danger.
So don't come looking for me.
[Clicks]
[Wind whistling]
[Snarling]
[Breathing heavily]
Alicia: Hey!
I'm over here!
♪
[Groaning lightly]
Hey!
♪
Wait!
I said wait!
What do you know about Padre?
Is it real?
♪
[Walker growling]
[Grunts]
[Thud][Grunts]
[Squishing]
♪
[Whimpers]
[Walkers growling]
♪
[Growling echoes, fades]
[Wind whistles]
[Breathing quickly]
Girl: I didn't know if you
were gonna wake up or not.
[Breathes sharply]
It's okay.
I was...
Passed out on
one of their bodies.
I heard you scream.
How did we get here?
I dragged you.
We almost
didn't make it.
What's your name?
It's okay.
You can tell me.
I'm Alicia --
Alicia.
I know.
I heard your message.
That's why
I was at the beach.
You can take your mask off.
It's safe in here.
I don't take it off.
You helped me
in the woods.
Why didn't you stay?
I was looking
for my friend.
Why are you sick?
Is it because
of your arm?
Did one of them
bite you?
It's okay.
You can tell me.
I'm not scared of bites.
It doesn't matter.
There's nothing
to do about it.
[Clattering]
Were you telling
the truth?
Can your friend
really help us find Padre?
Yes, but we have to
find him first.
He's all I've got left.
He's like family.
What are you
looking for?
Tylenol, ibuprofen, anything
to bring down the fever.
Isn't the fever what's
gonna kill the infection?
You sure know a lot
for a kid.
My mom always said I was
too smart for my own good.
My mom said
the same thing.
This infection
is different.
I've been fighting it
a long time.
♪
[Echoing]
Did you find medicine?
♪
Alicia?
What is it?
♪
It's nothing.
[Breathing sharply]
How far away
is your friend?
I'm not sure.Well, where is he?
Where were you going?
To make contact with him.
How?
Same way you did.
Your message --
I heard it from far away.
If I send it from where you did,
he'll hear me wherever he is.
That's not gonna work.
Even if he does know where
Padre is, the Tower's on fire.
The dead around it
are irradiated.
You won't make it.But you might.
You could help me.
I barely made it here.
[Breathing heavily]
We got to get to the rafts
before the dead
get to the flames.
I'm not
getting in a raft!
Hey!
It's not loaded.Why?
You looked for bullets lately?
There aren't any.
If you aren't going to help,
why'd you follow me
in the first place?!
To save you.
To save my friends.
To do something
that might outlast me.
You think
you're going to die?
Look at me. I may not make it
to the beach.
This thing
is gonna beat me.
Everyone who gets bit
ends up just like them.
That means
I won't be able
to help my friends
get someplace safe.
You're wrong.
You can beat it.
Andyou can help
your friends.
No.
That's not true.
[Sighs]
Girl: It is!
How would you know?
♪
Because I was bit, too!
And I'mstill here.
What? How?
Take me to the Tower.
Make contact
with my friend.
He's the one who saved me.
He can save you, too.
And then he can get us all
to Padre.
♪
[Breathes deeply]
Come on.
When did it happen?
The bite on your arm.
It healed.
It must've been a while ago.
How'd you get bit?
You can trust me.
I'm here, aren't I?
[Walker growling]
-I got it.
-No. You won't reach his head.
It's too much for you.
Here.
Where'd you get that?Take it.
Where did you get that?!It came off your neck
while I was pulling you
to the van.
Use it on him!
No.
Shoot him!
Alicia: I got it.
[Walker growling]
♪
[Grunting]
[Growling stops]
Are you okay?
Yeah.
You almost
got yourself killed.
The walker's mulch.
You didn't get hurt.
So there's nothing
to be upset about.
Why didn't you use
the bullet?
I was nowhere near you.
I didn't want to draw
more of the dead.
That's not
the real reason.
Why do you have a bullet
if you won't use it?
You really want to know?Yes.
So I don't turn into one of them
when I die.
So you know your friends are
okay before you end it all.
That's the idea.
But you're making it
really hard right now.
Are you having dreams?
About turning
into one of them?
♪
I had them, too.
Do you still have them?
No.
Only when my fever
was really bad.
My friend...
he'll help you.
You're not going to end up
like one of them.
So use the bullet
next time you need it.
[Wind rushing]
[Walkers growling in distance]
[Growling continues]
We're never
getting up there.
We need to go back
to the rafts.
Maybe your friend will hear
the message from the beach.
Go if you want.
I'm staying.
I gave it a shot.
But this is impossible.
No one would be able
to make it up there.
What about the other people
who heard your message?
You're just gonna let them
walk into that?
Ifthey heard
my message...
they'll turn around
when they see the Tower.
They won't know
to go to the beach.
They could end up
someplace worse.
We need to go.
I'm not sure I can push
much further.
I'm not leaving.
I'm going in there.
I won't let you die.
Not till we can find Padre.
Then come with me.
If I go, we both die.
-I'll die if we stay out here.
-What the hell does that mean?
You know exactly
what that means.
[Walkers growling]
We're drawing them in
from the Tower.
I got it.
♪
Alicia.
[Snarling]
♪
Alicia.
[Thump echoes]
[Distorted growling echoes]
♪
Girl: [Breathing heavily]
Hang on. No.
[Breathing heavily]
Stay with me.
♪
Is anyone there?
I repeat -- is anyone there?!
[Wind rushing]
[Footsteps echoing]
♪
Wait.
-Wait.
-She's waking up.
June:
How are you feeling?
Alicia:
Why aren't you at the rafts?
Luciana: Alicia, we wouldn't
leave without you.
Stop. Stop.
Let me get up, please.
-Okay.
-Please.
Thank you.
How did you find me?
We heard your S.O.S.
Name's Josiah.
He's a friendly.
He got to you before we did.
Where is she?Good thing, too, or you'd
be part of that herd.
Where is she?
Where's who?
Alicia: The one who can
help us find Padre.
-You found her?
-She walkied you to help me.
You walkied us, Alicia.
Luciana: And we don't even know
if that place is real.
She helped
kill the walkers.
♪
You sure about that?
Looks like
youkilled them.
Yes. She was there.
She -- She saved me, twice.
[Groans]
The blood --
it's from before.
God.
You're still burning up.
You take
that adrenaline shot?
I had to. This is not the fever.
She was there.
You were alone
when I found you.
She must've gone back
to the Tower.
Luciana:
Why would she do that?
To send a message.
To find her friend.
To help us find Padre.
We have to go back.
I have to go back.
-Easy there.
-We came here to take you
back to the raft,
and that's what we're gonna do.
By force if that's how
you want to play it.
I get it. I do.
I would be doing the same thing
if I were you, but...
I'm not leaving
without her.
We don't even know
if she's real.
Why is saving her
so important to you?
It's how
I'm going to save you.
But something tells me it's...
how I'm going to save myself.
♪
Coming back to those rafts --
that's your best shot.
She got bit.
And she's alive.
♪
Her friend --
he helped her.
Alicia -- I've seen someone tell
the exact same lie before.
I've been dreaming
about dying for months,
about turning
into one them.
♪
I don't want to die.
I don't want to turn.
And she can help me live.
Are you sure you're not just
seeing her because you want to?
♪
Yes.
I know how it sounds.
♪
She is real.
When people doubted me,
it didn't feel good.
To be fair, amigo,
you weren't operating
with all your faculties.
Maybe I'm still not.
[Chuckles]
Alicia helped me
to see things more clearly.
And I can't leave her to try
to do this on her own.
So I'm coming with you.
Luciana: Daniel...
I'm in.
♪
You'll clear the tunnel
faster with help.
♪
Sherry would kill me if I let
you all go alone, so...
Well, shit.
Don't wanna be the only asshole
who said no.
C'mon, Josie. Got to
stir up some crispy beef.
♪
Alicia: Are you there?
I repeat -- are you there?
[Sighs]
Maybe they're right.
Maybe you aren't real.
Girl: Alicia?
Yes. It's me. I'm here.
Where are you?
Moving up the stairs.
I think I can get
to the roof from here.
No. Stay where you are.
It's too dangerous
to do this on your own.
I'm coming. My friends, they're
just clearing the tunnel.
Once you're through
the tunnel,
the stairs are clear.
[Static crackling]
Hello?
Are you there?
Can you hear me?
[Static crackling]
Shit.
♪
Alicia, we cleared a path
through the tunnel.
If she's in there,
we can get to her.
She is. I talked to her.
I'm going in after her.
You're not going
in there alone.
She's right.
We ain't leaving you now.
Josiah:
We opened it up pretty good,
but we can't be certain
it'll be stable for long.
You need to get back to
the rafts. Prepare to leave.
If I learn where Padre is,
I'll radio you.
Sherry needs you.
And you just found your brother.
And you've got to be there
for Charlie.
And Arno's people.
They need someone
to show them the way.
-They will have you.
-Luci.
I have to do this on my own.
♪
We will see you and the girl
at the shore.
♪
[Door thumps, creaking]
[Door creaking, thumps]
[Walkers growling]
♪
[Panting]
[Walkers growling]
♪
Where are you?
Are you in the stairwell?
[Panting]
Please...
tell me where you are.
♪
Where are you?
I'm halfway up.
Girl: I'm on the roof.
But I need your help.
I'm not sure
I can make it.
You have to.
It's the only way.
♪
[Panting]
C'mon.
You can do it.
[Panting]
[Bird chirping]
♪
[Chirping continues]
[Panting]
Girl: Over here.
♪
You're alive.
So are you.
I don't want to die.
I'm not ready.
Let's find your friend.
[Metal creaking]
No.
No!
[Breathing heavily]
Girl: What?It's br-- It's broken!
It's okay.
No, it's not --
your friend.
We need to --
We need to get
in touch with him.
We need to find somewhere
for everyone to go.
We still can.
What are you
talking about?
My friend --
he's not out there.
He's here in this Tower.
That's why I wanted
to come in here.
Your friend.
What is his name?
Victor Strand.
♪
[Echoing] I'm sorry
I didn't tell you sooner.
♪
Strand:
[Echoing] They were never part
of my vision for this place.
They were never part
You're never gonna forgive me,
are you?
[Echoing] What?
Even if I help you
save everyone,
the damage is
already done.
I was trying
to save your life!
...save your life!
No! No! No! No!
It doesn't make sense!
Alicia, I know you must
think I'm a monster,
but I'm the same man
I've always been.
You can't stop
what's coming.
Where are you going?I'm going back
to the beach!
They were right.
I s-- I s--
I shouldn't have
come here.
We need to help him.
Why?
Because
he's your family.
You don't know
what he's capable of.
I know everything you do.
He can save you.
He can save us.
No!
♪
Did you even get bit?
Do you know anything
about Padre?
Is anything
you said to me true?
It all is.
I can help you.
If you help him.
♪
No...
You'd rather die
than save him?
♪
Yes.
Why?
Because he took everything
from me.
Then don't let him
take your life, too.
♪
If you leave him here,
you'll die.
[Breathing heavily]
♪
Why do you care
what happens to him?
It's not about Strand.
♪
It's about you.
[Door clanks]
Wait.
Where are you going?
[Panting]
[Bird chirping]
♪
Why would you go in here?
[Coughs]
Who's there?
♪
Is there a visitor?
Victor?
My mind is playing tricks
on me.
[Chuckles]
It's --
It's not a trick.
I'm here.
You gotta get out
of here.
I can't.
Not now.
I'm not gonna make it.
Alicia, I'm sorry.
I wanted to give you
everything.
You didn't give me
anything.
You just took everything
from me.
Is this because
of what I did to Will?
Will's just another person
that I outlived.
So many people had to die
so I could live.
This is about
your mother.
It's about so much more
than that.
This is about making what
she gave us mean something.
To do what she --
she didn't get to.
To make this place...
...a place
that would last.
[Voice breaking]
I'm so sorry, Alicia.
I'm so sorry
for everything.
Hey.
Don't -- Don't -- Don't --
Don't do that.
♪
If you turn...
...I deserve everything
that you do to me.
♪
It's not for you.
[Walkers growling]
♪
[Voice breaking]
It's for me.
♪
[Sniffles]
[Growls]
[Crying] I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
♪
[Whispering]
I'm sorry.
♪
[Bird chirps]
Go.
Please.
♪
Leave!
Please.
♪
No!
God damn it!
♪
There are certain things
you always remember
about your kids.
♪
My daughter -- she just decided
that bird was gonna live.
♪
She lived because my kids
didn't give up on her.
♪
[Bird chirping]
Maybe this is the last thing
I was meant to do.
♪
[Panting]
[Wind rushing]
♪
[Bird chirping]
Thank you.
Why did you come back?
♪
Because I can't leave you.
No...
No, I --
♪
I don't understand.
You do, Alicia.
♪
You're...
...me.
♪
She gave her a chance
when no one else would.
There's not a whole lot
of that left anymore.
Why did you
bring me here?
You know why.
It's on that tape.
♪
But that light --
it's getting fainter
every day we're out here.
♪
You're wrong.
What you told Victor before --
your mom didn't die so you
could build something like this.
♪
She died so that
the part of you
that didn't give up on people
would live.
♪
I wasn't lying
when I told you
I survived the bite.
I'm still in you.
♪
But you're the only one
who can make sure
this isn't the end
for me.
I can't.
♪
[Sighs]
I'm going to die.
Not if you make sure that people
remember this part of you.
How?
♪
You know how.
Alicia.
Answer me.
I have to save Strand.
[Indistinct conversations]
[Wind rushing]
June:
Don't leave anything behind!
We don't know how long
we're going to be out there!
♪
[Conversations continue]
We're ready.
We can't miss the tide.
She'll catch up.
We cannot be here
when those walkers burn.
♪
Try and stay clustered,
but if we get split up...
♪
Everyone in!
We're shoving off!
♪
Alicia:
I repeat -- we need help.
♪
Alicia, where are you?
The MRAP.
But we can't make it
much farther on our own.
We'll meet you there.
Did you find her?
Yeah.
♪
I found someone else, too.
They'll never take me
with you.
[Coughing]
♪
They will
if I ask them to.
[Breathing heavily]
[Groans, coughs]
Why'd you save me?
After everything
I've done?
[Chuckles]
[Coughs]
What?
I asked your mother
the same question once.
What did she say?
She said she did it
because she knew who I was.
[Sighs]
I don't think
she really did.
Not like you do.
So I'm asking again --
why'd you save me?
It's not about you.
It's about me.
So you can do what I don't
have time left to do.
So you can find a place
for everyone to be safe.
You really think I can?
I'm not sure.
But I think you'll try.
Alicia. Alicia.
Stay with me.
♪
She's waking up!
Don't move.
The fever's still rising.
We've got you on fluids.
We're gonna try and make
this raft
as comfortable as we can,
okay?
We need to move now.
Readings are spiking.
The walkers must've breached
the fence.
Did you hear
from Morgan?Yeah.
Current took him
in a different direction,
but he cleared
the radiation.
♪
Will you tell him
something for me?
You can tell him
yourself.
♪
He wanted to talk
with you, too.
[Breathing heavily]
♪
Morgan?
Morgan:
Hey. Hey. Is that you?
I'm sorry I didn't do what
I said I would with the Tower.
You got everybody onto the
rafts. That's all that matters.
Also, I think
you might be right.
I've been hearing some chatter
on the radio and...[Crying]
...I think
it might be Padre.
[Crying continues]
♪
I think Padre is real.
And I think we might actually
have someplace to go to.
How about that?
♪
Alicia,
how are you feeling?
You need to know
something.
No matter what happens
to me...
♪
...you won't be
doing this alone.
I won't be doing it alone,
because you're
going to be alright.[Crying]
Right?
[Static crackles]
Alicia?
Are you there?
[Static crackles]
[Crying continues]Are you?
♪
[Static crackles]
If he didn't hear that,
I'll make sure he knows.
♪
[Wind rushing]
[Indistinct conversations]
Wait.
[Coughs]
Alicia...
I'm sorry I wasn't able to stop
this from happening to you.
I'm sorry I wasn't there
for you, either.
Daniel's gonna look
after you, okay?
I know.
[Sniffles]
It's okay.
It's okay, Alicia,
because...
I got to do something
that I never thought I would.
And look -- we finally
got to see a beach.
[Breathes deeply,
sniffles]
We did.
[Sighs, sniffles]
Charlie -- it's time.
[Indistinct conversations]
Are you going to be okay?
I wasn't there for Ofelia
at the end,
but I will be there
for her.
[Conversations continue]
I will see you again.
[Sniffles]
Sherry: We gotta go.
[Conversations continue]
Thank you
for taking us in
like you did.
We might not have made it
this far without you.
Luciana: Hey.
If I didn't have to look
after them,
I would be in
this raft with you.No. No.
It's too dangerous.
I have to do this alone.
Strand: No.
No, you won't.
It may not be
the Abigail,
but we can rough it out
together.
Stop.
What?
♪
No.
Alicia?
Alicia!
No.
Get --
Get on the raft!
No!
I don't know
how fast I'll turn.
I don't know how much longer
I have left.
I'm willing to take
that risk.
I'm not.
It's up to you...
[Voice breaking]
...to make sure
everything
we've been through...
[sniffles]
...means something.
You have to go.I'm not gonna go!
You have to go!
People may have heard
my message.
They may be heading
to the Tower.
♪
You did make it
mean something.
♪
You saved all of them.
[Crying]
You saved me.
♪
You did what I asked you to do
back at Lawton.
♪
Victor,
I didn't just save you...
♪
...so you could live to do
what I couldn't.
♪
I did it
because I love you, too.
♪
[Chuckles]
[Bird chirping]
[Wind rushing]
[Chirping continues]
What are you
doing here?
♪
What does that mean?
I think it means
you saved me.
♪
How do you feel?
I feel...
♪
...like I haven't felt
in a while.
Like what?
♪
Like...
...myself.
♪
Where are you going?
To find the people
who heard my message.
♪
To spend
whatever time I have left
making sure they have
some place safe to go.
♪
[Walkers growling]
[Growling stops][Thuds]
♪
[Walker snarling]
Morgan:
I don't know how much longer
I can keep doing this.
Can anybody hear me?
♪
[Walker growls]
[Walkers snarling]
Man: Don't be a hero.Just give me back
my daughter,
and you will never
see us again.
♪
Bury him.
[Walkers snarling]
[Crying]
♪
[Suspenseful music plays]
[Roar]
♪
[Hiss]
When the episode opens,
we see Alicia coming
in and out of consciousness
and she finally finds herself
settled on the beach
and the first thing
that catches her attention is
birds flying back and forth
and landing next to her.
It's something that catches her
attention and then flies off
and it really was all about
kind of creating a sense
of mystery,
of why did she feel this kind of
moment of connection
with this bird?
And it's something that becomes
a motif throughout the episode.
Hey!
♪
Wait!
There is, I think,
a few things
driving Alicia's desire
to catch up to this girl,
to help her.
The first one is that this girl,
by all accounts,
helped Alicia
out of some tough situations
and Alicia, I think,
wants to find out who she is
and why she helped her
and return the favor.
You don't have to run!
I'm not running!
I have to find
my friend.
We can help you.
I want to help you.
Deep down, you think this is
the real reason
she ultimately follows her --
because she feels
some connection
that she just can't explain.
As the mystery deepens about why
does Alicia care so much
about this girl,
who is this girl,
it, ultimately,
leads her on a journey
that does get her
to the answer.
You sure know a lot
for a kid.
My mom always said I was
too smart for my own good.
My mom said
the same thing.
Alicia saw that tape
once before, in Season 4.
That tape, back then,
reminded her
of that part of herself
that she didn't want to die,
that part of herself that her
mom sacrificed herself to save.
You know, I think
the minute she sees it,
all those memories
come flooding back to her
and, at the same time,
I think it's also actually
making her feel like
she has failed.
You know,
she's remembering everything
that her mom tried to build,
the fact that
her mom wanted
to keep that alive,
and her optimism,
this innocence.
This thing is going
to beat me.
Everyone who gets bit
ends up just like them.
And, yet, here,
Alicia is in a state where
she thinks she is dying
from this fever
that's got a hold of her
and, if she dies, everything
her mom sacrificed her life for
will not continue.
[Growling]
♪
[Grunting]
Alicia's fever tends
to get worse
when she's kind of physically
exerting herself
and that often
leaves her vulnerable
in moments when there are
walkers around,
when she's trying
to kill walkers.
And this young girl
seems very effective
at taking out the walkers,
at saving Alicia,
and it's really all
about kind of continuing
to generate the mystery
about who this girl is,
what she's doing here.
Is anyone there?
I repeat,
is anyone there?
And it's all
about really putting Alicia
in this place
where she's wondering
if everything she's been
experiencing is real
or is just an effect
of the fever dream that she has
and, ideally,
it's putting the audience
in kind of the same place, too.
Where is she?Who?
The one who can help us
find PADRE.
You found her?
She walkied you
to help me.
You walkied us,
Alicia.
One by one,
the characters decide
they're going to help Alicia
and it really is just speaking
to how much they care about her,
but it's really
about trusting a character
who has been a very strong ally
and who has recently
become a leader to them.
My friend --
he's not out there.
♪
He's here in this Tower.
That's why I wanted
to come in here.
What is his name?
♪
Victor Strand.
Alicia realizes the reason
that her subconscious
brought her to the tower --
kind of in order to preserve
the part of herself
who would give, as a child,
an injured bird who was
beyond hope a second chance,
she's got to do the same thing
for Strand.
She's got to give someone
who she cares about deeply,
who may have hurt her,
who may have done
some really terrible things,
she's got to give him
a second chance.
Why'd you save me...
...after everything
I've done?
And Strand doesn't understand
why she's done this.
And she essentially gives Strand
his mission, which is...
So you can do what
I don't have time left to do.
So you can find a place
for everyone to be safe.
It's something that we'll see
whether or not
he takes up as we go forward.
But Strand's essentially
got to pick up Alicia's mantle
and try to build the kind of
place that she wanted to build.
♪
I don't understand.
You do, Alicia.
You're...
me.
You know, it really was thinking
about a way to externalize
this idea that Alicia,
in her last moments,
would actually fight
to save the thing
that makes her special.
She gave her a chance
when no one else would.
There's not
a whole lot of that left.
So it was a lot of fun to build
to that reveal
and to, you know,
plant the breadcrumbs for it,
you know,
throughout the episode.
And it was also a good challenge
to find someone
who could convincingly play
in an eight-year-old Alicia
and fun to see them
kind of side by side.
Victor,
I didn't just save you...
...so you could live to what
I couldn't.
♪
I did it because
I love you, too.
It was very difficult to write
Alicia's last episode
and to say goodbye to her,
both as a character
and then also say goodbye to
Alycia Debnam-Carey
as an actor
because she's been such
an integral part of the show
from the very beginning,
but it's something
that we've been working towards
for a while and something
we've been working towards
very closely with Alycia.
It's up to you...
[voice breaking] to make sure
everything we been through
means something.
Chambliss: Alicia's journey
was all about this moment
where she can essentially save
kind of this
core part of herself,
and that's this belief that
there can be good in people.
And in many ways,
it's kind of an extension
of what her mother believed,
that no one's gone
until they're gone.
And that is what
we started with,
and that is ultimately how
we got to the story that you see
when you watch the episode.
♪
Alicia collapses seemingly
succumbing to the fever.
She wakes up seeing this bird
flying over her.
And I think it's open
to interpretation
whether or not
that bird is really there,
whether or not she really freed
a bird from the Tower,
or whether that was all part
of her subconscious.
And if it was, maybe this is
just her subconscious
trying to guide her once again.
And we really wanted to build
this kind of
reawakening of Alicia,
where she has been through
this incredible journey
and is now standing up
and is going to be walking into
kind of a new world
with a newfound strength.
Where are you going?
To find the people
who heard my message...
spend whatever time
I have left
making sure they have
someplace safe to go.
We know that she's been saving
that bullet
out of fear of turning.
And, you know, her using that
on a walker really is a sign
that Alicia believes
she has beaten this thing,
that Alicia thinks
she's going to live.
And, you know, then we see her
walk off as a triumphant hero.
♪